<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Clustering literature</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Clustering literature</h1>
        <h2>General</h2>
        <ul>
            <li><q>Hierarchical cluster analysis</q> (<a
                    href="http://www.econ.upf.edu/~michael/stanford/maeb7.pdf"
                    >http://www.econ.upf.edu/~michael/stanford/maeb7.pdf </a>). From STA254
                Department of Statistics, Stanford University, Fall, 2008, <cite>Correspondence
                    Analysis and Related Methods</cite>, Michael Greenacre, Universitat Pompeu
                Fabra, Barcelona. General introduction, cutting the tree, permutation tests for
                valiation.</li>
            <li><q>Hierarchical Clustering Essentials - Unsupervised Machine Learning</q> (<a
                    href="http://www.sthda.com/english/wiki/hierarchical-clustering-essentials-unsupervised-machine-learning"
                    >http://www.sthda.com/english/wiki/hierarchical-clustering-essentials-unsupervised-machine-learning</a>).
                Part of Statistical tools for high-throughput data analysis (STHDA), <a
                    href="http://www.sthda.com/english/">http://www.sthda.com/english/</a>. Clear,
                thorough, detailed, and accessible introductory tutorial. Table of contents: 1
                Required R packages; 2 Algorithm; 3 Data preparation and descriptive statistics; 4 R
                functions for hierarchical clustering; 4.1 hclust() function; 4.2 agnes() and
                diana() functions; 4.2.1 R code for computing agne;s 4.2.2 R code for computing
                diana; 5 Interpretation of the dendrogram; 6 Cut the dendrogram into different
                groups; 7 Hierarchical clustering and correlation based distance; 8 What type of
                distance measures should we choose?; 9 Comparing two dendrograms; 9.1 Tanglegram;
                9.2 Correlation matrix between a list of dendrogram. Not specifically about
                unsupervised machine learning.</li>
            <li><q>Hierarchical Clustering with R (feat. D3.js and Shiny)</q> (<a
                    href="http://www.joyofdata.de/blog/hierarchical-clustering-with-r/"
                    >http://www.joyofdata.de/blog/hierarchical-clustering-with-r/</a>). From Raffael
                Vogler’s <cite>Joy of data</cite> site. General introduction, cutting the tree. Not
                especially about Shiny or D3.</li>
        </ul>
        <h2>Emphasis on visualization</h2>
        <ul>
            <li>From Tal Galili about <cite>dendextend</cite><ul>
                    <li><q>Introduction to <cite>dendextend</cite></q> (<a
                            href="https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dendextend/vignettes/introduction.html"
                            >https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dendextend/vignettes/introduction.html</a>).
                        By Tal Galili. <q>The <cite>dendextend</cite> package offers a set of
                            functions for extending dendrogram objects in R, letting you visualize
                            and compare trees of hierarchical clusterings, you can: 1) Adjust a
                            tree’s graphical parameters - the color, size, type, etc of its
                            branches, nodes and labels. 2) Visually and statistically compare
                            different dendrograms to one another.</q></li>
                    <li><q>Hierarchical cluster analysis on famous data sets - enhanced with the
                                <cite>dendextend</cite> package</q> (<a
                            href="https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dendextend/vignettes/Cluster_Analysis.html"
                            >https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dendextend/vignettes/Cluster_Analysis.html</a>).
                        Good examples with clear explanations.</li>
                    <li><q>FAQ.</q> (<a
                            href="https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dendextend/vignettes/FAQ.html"
                            >https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/dendextend/vignettes/FAQ.html</a>).
                        Cookbook-type questions about dendrogram visualization.</li>
                </ul></li>
            <li><q>Visualizing Dendrograms in R</q> (<a href="https://rpubs.com/gaston/dendrograms"
                    >https://rpubs.com/gaston/dendrograms</a>). By Gaston Sanchez. Focus on
                decorating dendrograms (which can make them easier to understand) and on
                alternatives to dendrograms (most of which don’t ultimately seem to offer any
                advantages over dendrograms in expressing information).</li>
            <li><q>Stacked Trees: a New Hybrid Visualization Method</q> (<a
                    href="http://iihm.imag.fr/publs/2012/AVI12-StackedTrees-Bisson.pdf"
                    >http://iihm.imag.fr/publs/2012/AVI12-StackedTrees-Bisson.pdf</a>). By Gilles
                Bisson and Renaud Blanch. Similar enough to dendrograms to be easy to understand
                intuitively, but with greater information density, and therefore able to represent
                larger datasets in an accessible way. More detailed report in Gilles Bisson, Renaud
                Blanch. <q>Improving Visualization of Large Hierarchical Clustering.</q>
                International Conference on Information Visualisation (IV), Jul 2012, Montpellier,
                France. IEEE Conference Publications, pp.220-228, 2012, &lt;10.1109/IV.2012.45&gt;.
                &lt;hal-00740734&gt; (<a
                    href="https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00740734/document"
                    >https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-00740734/document</a>).</li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</html>
